input/pagecontent/ecosystem.md, before:

This page documents the HL7 terminology ecosystem framework, where a set of servers
that serve different code systems on behalf of different code system authorities, and
there is a central coordinating server that routes terminology operations to the 
correct server. 

A terminology server ecosystem is defined by two URLs:
* the URL of the master registry that registers the servers in the ecosystem
* the URL of the coordination server that handles value set and code system resolution for the ecosystem 

There must be at least one coordination server for the ecosystem, though may be more than one. 

HL7 manages one ecosystem:

* Master registration file: [https://fhir.github.io/ig-registry/tx-servers.json]
* Primary coordination server: [http://tx.fhir.org/tx-reg]

HL7 requires that all servers registered with the HL7 ecosystem have passed the tests described 
in this document as a representation of the requirements documented in this IG. 

Other ecosystems may be defined by other organizations by creating their own pair of registration file 
and server. Individual servers might participate in multiple different ecosystems.

Note that other ecosystems may not make the same requirement about passing these tests; users of the ecosystem 
will have to consult the documentation to determine the applicable registration policy.

### Registering the Servers 

Registration is a two level process:
* The master registration file lists one or more server registries
* The server registries list one or more servers

The files may be static json files (as the HL7 ecosystem practices), or 
they may be dynamically generated in whatever fashion the manager of the 
file sees fit. 

#### The master registration file 

The master registration file has the following content:

```json5
{
  "formatVersion" : "1", // fixed value. Mandatory
  "description" : "some description of this registry set", // purpose etc. Optional
  "documentation" : "See https://build.fhir.org/ig/HL7/fhir-tx-ecosystem-ig/ecosystem.html", // recommended reference to this page. Optional
  "registries" : [{ // list of the registries. Must be present, but may be empty
    "code" : "code",  // code that identifies the registry. A persistent identifier. alphanumerics only, no spaces. Mandatory
    "name" : "Name",  // human readable name. Can change, can contain any characters (including html type control chars). Mandatory
    "authority" : "Organization name", // name of publishing org. Optional
    "url" : "https://somwhere/path" // actual location of registry. Mandatory
  }]
}
```

Notes:

* The formatVersion number is 1. This might be changed in the future if breaking changes are made to the format
* Each of the entries in the list of registries points to a json document as documented in the next section
* The code for the registry should be stable, since it may be used to identify the set of servers in the Coordination API (see below)

#### The server registries

This file contains a list of terminology servers.

```json5
{
  "formatVersion" : "1",// fixed value. Mandatory
  "description" : "something", // purpose etc. Optional
  "servers" : [{ // list of actual servers
    "code" : "code",  // code that identifies the server. Persistent identifier. alphanumerics only, no spaces. Mandatory
    "name" : "Name",  // human readable name. can change, can contain any characters (including html type control chars). Mandatory
    "access_info" : "documentation", // human readable markdown explaining how to get access to the server. Optional
    "url" : "http://server/page", // human landing page for the server. optional
    "usage" : [ // if present, a list of string usage tags for the intended use of the server. Missing means any use is appropriate. See below for uses (optional) ],
    "authoritative" : [ 
      // a list of CodeSystems the server claims to be authoritative for (see below). Optional
      "http://domain/*", // simple mask, * is a wildcard  
      "http://domain/*|1.0.0", // (may include version masks)
      "http://domain/*|1.*" 
    ],
    "authoritative-valuesets" : [ 
      // a list of ValueSets the server claims to be authoritative for (see below). Optional
      "http://domain/*", // simple mask, * is a wildcard
      "http://domain/*|1.0.0",
      "http://domain/*|1.*" 
    ],
    "fhirVersions" : [{ // list of actual endpoint by FHIR version
      "version" : "R4", // can be R(X)
      "url" : "http://server/endpoint" // actual FHIR endpoint of the server for that version
    }]
  }]
}
```

Notes:

* The formatVersion number is 1. This might be changed in the future if breaking or significant changes are made to the format
* The code for the server should be stable, since it may be used to identify the server in the Coordination API (see below)
* Most servers will only have one endpoint, that is, they will only support one FHIR version, but some support more than one
* if the different versions have different authoritative lists, that's really different servers
* Server endpoints must support FHIR R3 or later. Valid values for version: R3, R4, R4B, R5, R6

#### Conformance Requirements 

All endpoints listed in the server registration file shall return CapabilityStatement and TerminologyCapabilities
resources that conform to the requirements describes in this IG

The HL7 ecosystem requires that all servers fully conform to the requirements laid out in
this implementation, and that servers pass the set of tests described here in, or an acceptable 
alternative set of tests as agreed with the FHIR Product Director (for servers that only support 
specific code systems).

Servers may require authentication that restricts their use to an approved subset of users.

#### Authoritative Servers 

Servers may be declared to be authoritative for a set of CodeSystems and/or ValueSets in the registration file. 
This is a declaration that the server manager believes that the server is the appropriate server in this 
ecosystem to choose for that set of CodeSystems and ValueSets when they are used. 

In general, users will expect that the authoritative servers have the latest versions of the content,
and that older versions still in use are also maintained. The authoritative claim is only in regard 
to the ecosystem, not an absolute claim that the server is the only authoritative server in all 
contexts.

Note that servers often support multiple code systems for which they are not regard as authoritative e.g. tx.fhir.org
has a copy of the Australian edition of SNOMED CT, but the HL7 Australia official server is the authoritative server
for the Australian edition. Servers are not restricted to only serving the content for which they are authoritative.

The authoritative flag is used to help resolve which server to use - see below.

### The Coordination server

The Coordination server keeps a current set of information on the servers in its
ecosystem, and users of the ecosystem ask the Coordination server which terminology server should be
used for a particular operation. 

#### Scanning the Ecosystem

The Coordination server scans the servers referenced from the master registration 
file on a regular basis, and maintains a live list of the servers, their configuration, and what 
CodeSystems and ValueSet each endpoint supports and is authoritative for. The frequency of scanning 
is a matter for the ecosystem and server administrators, but is generally every few minutes.

The Coordination server will use the ```/metadata``` and ```/metadata?mode=terminology```
operations, and also iterate the full set of ValueSets on the server using ```/ValueSet?_summary=true```.
Note that the coordination server does not search the CodeSystems; instead, the list of 
supported CodeSystems comes from the TerminologyCapabilities resource.

If the server requires authentication for these operations, the Coordination server
must be given access to these operations. 

#### The Coordination server API

The monitoring server provides a public API that has two sub-functions: 

* Discovery: list known servers 
* Resolution: recommend which server to use for a code system

For the HL7 ecosystem, the ```root``` of this API is at [http://tx.fhir.org/tx-reg/]

#### Discovery 

```GET {root}```

These parameters SHALL be supported by all servers:

* registry: return only those endpoints that come from a nominated registry (by the code in the master registration file)
* server: return only those endpoints that have the code given
* fhirVersion: return only those endpoints that are based on the given FHIR version (RX or M.n.p)
* url: return only those endpoints that support a particular code system (by canonical, so url or url|version).
* authoritativeOnly: return only code systems which the endpoints are authoritative for (true or false; default is false)

When the ```Accept``` header is ```application/json```, the return value is a JSON object:

```json5
{
  "last-update": "2023-07-24T04:12:07.710Z", // last time the registries were scanned
  "master-url": "https://fhir.github.io/ig-registry/tx-servers.json", // master registry that was scanned
  "results": [{ // list of discovered endpoints
    "server-name": "human readable name",
    "server-code": "human readable name",
    "registry-name": "HL7 Terminology Services",
    "registry-code": "persistent code for the registry",
    "registry-url": "http://somewhere",
    "url": "http://server/endpoint", // actual endpoint for the server
    "fhirVersion": "4.0.1", // FHIR version - semver
    "error": "string", // details of error last time server was scanned, or null
    "last-success": int, // number of milliseconds since the server was last seen up
    "systems": int, // number of code systems found on the server
    "authoritative": [], // list of authoritative CodeSystems as canonical values (url|version)
    "authoritative-valuesets": [], // list of authoritative ValueSets as canonical values (url|version)
    "candidate": [], // list of candidate CodeSystems as canonical values (url|version)
    "candidate-valuesets": [], // list of candidate ValueSets as canonical values (url|version)
    "open": true // if the server supports non-authenticated use 
    "password" | "token" | "oauth" | "smart | "cert": true 
       // if the server supports authentication by one or more of those methods
  }]
}
```

Notes:

* server-X and registry-X properties are provided tor human trouble-shooting; they are not used anywhere

#### Resolution

A client can also ask which server to use for a particular CodeSystem or ValueSet. 

```GET {root}/resolve?fhirVersion={ver}&url={url}```

These parameters SHALL be supported by all servers:

* `fhirVersion` (**required**): return only those endpoints that are based on the given FHIR version (RX or M.n.p)
* `url`: return only those endpoints that support a particular code system (by canonical, so url or url/version)
* `valueSet`: return only those endpoints that know a particular ValueSet (by canonical, so url or url/version)
* one of `url` or `valueSet` must be present
* `authoritativeOnly`: return only those endpoints that are authoritative (true or false; default is false)
* `usage` - see below
  
When the ```Accept``` header is ```application/json```, the return value is a JSON object:

```json5
{
  "formatVersion" : version,
  "registry-url" : url,
  "authoritative" : [{
    "server-name" : "Human name for server",
    "url" : "http://server/endpoint" // actual FHIR endpoint of the server 
    "fhirVersion" : "4.0.1", // FHIR version - semver
    "open" | "password" | "token" | "oauth" | "smart | "cert": true // as above
  }],
  "candidate" : [{
    // same content as for authoritative
  }]
}
```

Notes:

* the resolve operation may return more that one server that is labelled as authoritative if the eco-system is defined that way. Resolving this is up to the client
* the resolve operation may return more than one candidate server if more than one server hosts the terminology. Resolving this is up to the client
* A server listed as authoritative won't also be listed as a candidate
* Servers are not listed as authoritative unless they actually host the CodeSystem(+version) in the request 


### Usages

If a server is marked as having a restricted use, the server will only be returned in the resolve call above if the client provides a use token that matches one of the tokens in the server's usage property (if it has any).

A client can provide a usage token with the parameter 'usage': ```GET {root}/resolve?fhirVersion={ver}&url={url}&usage=publication```

it's up to the client to provide a usage token that accurately represents it's usage. 

The open source hapi core java tools that support the ecosystem populate usage with one of three values:
* ```publication``` - the tool is publishing an IG, or building the core FHIR Specification
* ```validation``` - the tool is validating the content of a resource (this may be in production or from the command line, or validator.fhir.org)
* ```code-generation``` - the tool is generating some kind of code

The primary purpose of the usage flag is so that an administrator can deny access to server for purposes of validation. This *might* be appropriate if the ecosystem is not a production grade system (e.g. tx.fhir.org) but there is concern that some users won't restrict themselves from using it operationally (which is not supported by tx.fhir.org) for budget reasons.

### SNOMED CT Implicit ValueSets 

There's a limitation of use associated with the ecosystem, which is a little tricky to explain. 

The page [Using SNOMED CT with HL7 Standards](https://terminology.hl7.org/SNOMEDCT.html) defines a series of implicit SNOMED CT value set URLs. These implicit value sets are very useful since profiles / valuesets etc can just refer to them directly without having to ensure that they are created, and they are supported by all the terminology servers in the ecosystem. However there's a limitation of their use, associated with the need to decide which SNOMED CT server is the correct one to use for any particular request. 

The implicit value set URL has two parts:

* **base**: the SNOMED CT edition / version on which the value set is based e.g. `http://snomed.info/sct/20611000087101` is any Canadian version
* **specifier**: the details of the value set e.g. `?fhir_vs=refset/22071000087104`

Given the way that the value sets are defined, they are only valid against a given edition and version, and can only be evaluated (and even instantiated) against that known version. One way to manage this is bind the value set to a specific version in the definition itself:  e.g. `http://snomed.info/sct/20611000087101/version/20240731?fhir_vs=refset/22071000087104` identifies a specific version. 

But it's often more useful to allow late binding of the valueset to a specific version. E.g. `http://snomed.info/sct/20611000087101?fhir_vs=refset/22071000087104` is whatever is the applicable SNOMED CT version, where that might be specified using a `system-version` parameter in the expansion parameters, or the server might just use the latest version of the Canadian edition that it has. 

In the same way, `http://snomed.info/sct?fhir_vs=refset/22071000087104` means 'whatever version of whatever edition', as decided by the infrastructure when the reference is used. (this particular example neatly shows the risk of this approach, because 22071000087104 is a Canadian specific reference set, but it would be fine for most SCT content).

Unfortunately, the ecosystem infrastructure doesn't know how to route `http://snomed.info/sct?fhir_vs=refset/22071000087104` to the correct server - at the point the decision is made, the actual SNOMED CT edition isn't known, and can't be known, and the correct server can't be picked. Any evaluation of this value set will be done by tx.fhir.org, not one of the designated SNOMED CT servers (in this case, the Canadian server would be desired).

Hence, in the terminology ecosystem, all SNOMED CT implicit value sets must include the edition if they're not based on the international edition, and if evaluation by the correct server is desired. 

Note: this might change in the future e.g. if there's only one SNOMED CT server for all editions, but there's no plan for that at this time.

Commit message:

add clarification about SCT value set restrictions

input/pagecontent/ecosystem.md, after:

This page documents the HL7 terminology ecosystem framework, where a set of servers
that serve different code systems on behalf of different code system authorities, and
there is a central coordinating server that routes terminology operations to the 
correct server. 

A terminology server ecosystem is defined by two URLs:
* the URL of the master registry that registers the servers in the ecosystem
* the URL of the coordination server that handles value set and code system resolution for the ecosystem 

There must be at least one coordination server for the ecosystem, though may be more than one. 

HL7 manages one ecosystem:

* Master registration file: [https://fhir.github.io/ig-registry/tx-servers.json]
* Primary coordination server: [http://tx.fhir.org/tx-reg]

HL7 requires that all servers registered with the HL7 ecosystem have passed the tests described 
in this document as a representation of the requirements documented in this IG. 

Other ecosystems may be defined by other organizations by creating their own pair of registration file 
and server. Individual servers might participate in multiple different ecosystems.

Note that other ecosystems may not make the same requirement about passing these tests; users of the ecosystem 
will have to consult the documentation to determine the applicable registration policy.

### Registering the Servers 

Registration is a two level process:
* The master registration file lists one or more server registries
* The server registries list one or more servers

The files may be static json files (as the HL7 ecosystem practices), or 
they may be dynamically generated in whatever fashion the manager of the 
file sees fit. 

#### The master registration file 

The master registration file has the following content:

```json5
{
  "formatVersion" : "1", // fixed value. Mandatory
  "description" : "some description of this registry set", // purpose etc. Optional
  "documentation" : "See https://build.fhir.org/ig/HL7/fhir-tx-ecosystem-ig/ecosystem.html", // recommended reference to this page. Optional
  "registries" : [{ // list of the registries. Must be present, but may be empty
    "code" : "code",  // code that identifies the registry. A persistent identifier. alphanumerics only, no spaces. Mandatory
    "name" : "Name",  // human readable name. Can change, can contain any characters (including html type control chars). Mandatory
    "authority" : "Organization name", // name of publishing org. Optional
    "url" : "https://somwhere/path" // actual location of registry. Mandatory
  }]
}
```

Notes:

* The formatVersion number is 1. This might be changed in the future if breaking changes are made to the format
* Each of the entries in the list of registries points to a json document as documented in the next section
* The code for the registry should be stable, since it may be used to identify the set of servers in the Coordination API (see below)

#### The server registries

This file contains a list of terminology servers.

```json5
{
  "formatVersion" : "1",// fixed value. Mandatory
  "description" : "something", // purpose etc. Optional
  "servers" : [{ // list of actual servers
    "code" : "code",  // code that identifies the server. Persistent identifier. alphanumerics only, no spaces. Mandatory
    "name" : "Name",  // human readable name. can change, can contain any characters (including html type control chars). Mandatory
    "access_info" : "documentation", // human readable markdown explaining how to get access to the server. Optional
    "url" : "http://server/page", // human landing page for the server. optional
    "usage" : [ // if present, a list of string usage tags for the intended use of the server. Missing means any use is appropriate. See below for uses (optional) ],
    "authoritative" : [ 
      // a list of CodeSystems the server claims to be authoritative for (see below). Optional
      "http://domain/*", // simple mask, * is a wildcard  
      "http://domain/*|1.0.0", // (may include version masks)
      "http://domain/*|1.*" 
    ],
    "authoritative-valuesets" : [ 
      // a list of ValueSets the server claims to be authoritative for (see below). Optional
      "http://domain/*", // simple mask, * is a wildcard
      "http://domain/*|1.0.0",
      "http://domain/*|1.*" 
    ],
    "fhirVersions" : [{ // list of actual endpoint by FHIR version
      "version" : "R4", // can be R(X)
      "url" : "http://server/endpoint" // actual FHIR endpoint of the server for that version
    }]
  }]
}
```

Notes:

* The formatVersion number is 1. This might be changed in the future if breaking or significant changes are made to the format
* The code for the server should be stable, since it may be used to identify the server in the Coordination API (see below)
* Most servers will only have one endpoint, that is, they will only support one FHIR version, but some support more than one
* if the different versions have different authoritative lists, that's really different servers
* Server endpoints must support FHIR R3 or later. Valid values for version: R3, R4, R4B, R5, R6

#### Conformance Requirements 

All endpoints listed in the server registration file shall return CapabilityStatement and TerminologyCapabilities
resources that conform to the requirements describes in this IG

The HL7 ecosystem requires that all servers fully conform to the requirements laid out in
this implementation, and that servers pass the set of tests described here in, or an acceptable 
alternative set of tests as agreed with the FHIR Product Director (for servers that only support 
specific code systems).

Servers may require authentication that restricts their use to an approved subset of users.

#### Authoritative Servers 

Servers may be declared to be authoritative for a set of CodeSystems and/or ValueSets in the registration file. 
This is a declaration that the server manager believes that the server is the appropriate server in this 
ecosystem to choose for that set of CodeSystems and ValueSets when they are used. 

In general, users will expect that the authoritative servers have the latest versions of the content,
and that older versions still in use are also maintained. The authoritative claim is only in regard 
to the ecosystem, not an absolute claim that the server is the only authoritative server in all 
contexts.

Note that servers often support multiple code systems for which they are not regard as authoritative e.g. tx.fhir.org
has a copy of the Australian edition of SNOMED CT, but the HL7 Australia official server is the authoritative server
for the Australian edition. Servers are not restricted to only serving the content for which they are authoritative.

The authoritative flag is used to help resolve which server to use - see below.

### The Coordination server

The Coordination server keeps a current set of information on the servers in its
ecosystem, and users of the ecosystem ask the Coordination server which terminology server should be
used for a particular operation. 

#### Scanning the Ecosystem

The Coordination server scans the servers referenced from the master registration 
file on a regular basis, and maintains a live list of the servers, their configuration, and what 
CodeSystems and ValueSet each endpoint supports and is authoritative for. The frequency of scanning 
is a matter for the ecosystem and server administrators, but is generally every few minutes.

The Coordination server will use the ```/metadata``` and ```/metadata?mode=terminology```
operations, and also iterate the full set of ValueSets on the server using ```/ValueSet?_summary=true```.
Note that the coordination server does not search the CodeSystems; instead, the list of 
supported CodeSystems comes from the TerminologyCapabilities resource.

If the server requires authentication for these operations, the Coordination server
must be given access to these operations. 

#### The Coordination server API

The monitoring server provides a public API that has two sub-functions: 

* Discovery: list known servers 
* Resolution: recommend which server to use for a code system

For the HL7 ecosystem, the ```root``` of this API is at [http://tx.fhir.org/tx-reg/]

#### Discovery 

```GET {root}```

These parameters SHALL be supported by all servers:

* registry: return only those endpoints that come from a nominated registry (by the code in the master registration file)
* server: return only those endpoints that have the code given
* fhirVersion: return only those endpoints that are based on the given FHIR version (RX or M.n.p)
* url: return only those endpoints that support a particular code system (by canonical, so url or url|version).
* authoritativeOnly: return only code systems which the endpoints are authoritative for (true or false; default is false)

When the ```Accept``` header is ```application/json```, the return value is a JSON object:

```json5
{
  "last-update": "2023-07-24T04:12:07.710Z", // last time the registries were scanned
  "master-url": "https://fhir.github.io/ig-registry/tx-servers.json", // master registry that was scanned
  "results": [{ // list of discovered endpoints
    "server-name": "human readable name",
    "server-code": "human readable name",
    "registry-name": "HL7 Terminology Services",
    "registry-code": "persistent code for the registry",
    "registry-url": "http://somewhere",
    "url": "http://server/endpoint", // actual endpoint for the server
    "fhirVersion": "4.0.1", // FHIR version - semver
    "error": "string", // details of error last time server was scanned, or null
    "last-success": int, // number of milliseconds since the server was last seen up
    "systems": int, // number of code systems found on the server
    "authoritative": [], // list of authoritative CodeSystems as canonical values (url|version)
    "authoritative-valuesets": [], // list of authoritative ValueSets as canonical values (url|version)
    "candidate": [], // list of candidate CodeSystems as canonical values (url|version)
    "candidate-valuesets": [], // list of candidate ValueSets as canonical values (url|version)
    "open": true // if the server supports non-authenticated use 
    "password" | "token" | "oauth" | "smart | "cert": true 
       // if the server supports authentication by one or more of those methods
  }]
}
```

Notes:

* server-X and registry-X properties are provided tor human trouble-shooting; they are not used anywhere

#### Resolution

A client can also ask which server to use for a particular CodeSystem or ValueSet. 

```GET {root}/resolve?fhirVersion={ver}&url={url}```

These parameters SHALL be supported by all servers:

* `fhirVersion` (**required**): return only those endpoints that are based on the given FHIR version (RX or M.n.p)
* `url`: return only those endpoints that support a particular code system (by canonical, so url or url/version)
* `valueSet`: return only those endpoints that know a particular ValueSet (by canonical, so url or url/version)
* one of `url` or `valueSet` must be present
* `authoritativeOnly`: return only those endpoints that are authoritative (true or false; default is false)
* `usage` - see below
  
When the ```Accept``` header is ```application/json```, the return value is a JSON object:

```json5
{
  "formatVersion" : version,
  "registry-url" : url,
  "authoritative" : [{
    "server-name" : "Human name for server",
    "url" : "http://server/endpoint" // actual FHIR endpoint of the server 
    "fhirVersion" : "4.0.1", // FHIR version - semver
    "open" | "password" | "token" | "oauth" | "smart | "cert": true // as above
  }],
  "candidate" : [{
    // same content as for authoritative
  }]
}
```

Notes:

* the resolve operation may return more that one server that is labelled as authoritative if the eco-system is defined that way. Resolving this is up to the client
* the resolve operation may return more than one candidate server if more than one server hosts the terminology. Resolving this is up to the client
* A server listed as authoritative won't also be listed as a candidate
* Servers are not listed as authoritative unless they actually host the CodeSystem(+version) in the request 


### Usages

If a server is marked as having a restricted use, the server will only be returned in the resolve call above if the client provides a use token that matches one of the tokens in the server's usage property (if it has any).

A client can provide a usage token with the parameter 'usage': ```GET {root}/resolve?fhirVersion={ver}&url={url}&usage=publication```

it's up to the client to provide a usage token that accurately represents it's usage. 

The open source hapi core java tools that support the ecosystem populate usage with one of three values:
* ```publication``` - the tool is publishing an IG, or building the core FHIR Specification
* ```validation``` - the tool is validating the content of a resource (this may be in production or from the command line, or validator.fhir.org)
* ```code-generation``` - the tool is generating some kind of code

The primary purpose of the usage flag is so that an administrator can deny access to server for purposes of validation. This *might* be appropriate if the ecosystem is not a production grade system (e.g. tx.fhir.org) but there is concern that some users won't restrict themselves from using it operationally (which is not supported by tx.fhir.org) for budget reasons.

### SNOMED CT Implicit ValueSets 

There's a limitation of use associated with the ecosystem, which is a little tricky to explain. 

The page [Using SNOMED CT with HL7 Standards](https://terminology.hl7.org/SNOMEDCT.html) defines a series of implicit SNOMED CT value set URLs. These implicit value sets are very useful since profiles / valuesets etc can just refer to them directly without having to ensure that they are created, and they are supported by all the terminology servers in the ecosystem. However there's a limitation of their use, associated with the need to decide which SNOMED CT server is the correct one to use for any particular request. 

The implicit value set URL has two parts:

* **base**: the SNOMED CT edition / version on which the value set is based e.g. `http://snomed.info/sct/20611000087101` is any Canadian version
* **specifier**: the details of the value set e.g. `?fhir_vs=refset/22071000087104`

Given the way that the value sets are defined, they are only valid against a given edition and version, and can only be evaluated (and even instantiated) against that known version. One way to manage this is bind the value set to a specific version in the definition itself:  e.g. `http://snomed.info/sct/20611000087101/version/20240731?fhir_vs=refset/22071000087104` identifies a specific version. 

But it's often more useful to allow late binding of the valueset to a specific version. E.g. `http://snomed.info/sct/20611000087101?fhir_vs=refset/22071000087104` is whatever is the applicable SNOMED CT version, where that might be specified using a `system-version` parameter in the expansion parameters, or the server might just use the latest version of the Canadian edition that it has. 

In the same way, `http://snomed.info/sct?fhir_vs=refset/22071000087104` means 'whatever version of whatever edition', as decided by the infrastructure when the reference is used. (this particular example neatly shows the risk of this approach, because 22071000087104 is a Canadian specific reference set, but it would be fine for most SCT content).

Unfortunately, the ecosystem infrastructure doesn't know how to route `http://snomed.info/sct?fhir_vs=refset/22071000087104` to the correct server - at the point the decision is made, the actual SNOMED CT edition isn't known, and can't be known, and the correct server can't be picked. Any evaluation of this value set will be done by tx.fhir.org, not one of the designated SNOMED CT servers (in this case, the Canadian server would be desired).

Hence, in the terminology ecosystem, all SNOMED CT implicit value sets must include the edition if they're not based on the international edition, and if evaluation by the correct server is desired. 

This restriction applies to value set references in StructureDefinitions, Questionanires, ValueSets,and other resources used in IGs, packages etc. It does not apply to value sets used by import on one of the servers - the ecosystem does not resolve such a value set, and it's up to the server to do so.

Note: this restriction might change in the future e.g. if there's only one SNOMED CT server for all editions, but there's no plan for that at this time.
